# Framework
This framework is designed to run multiple applications and/or benchmarks together and collect data from them to estimate congestion on the interconnect network. 

## Requirements
- Python >= 3.6.8
- numpy
- pandas
- seaborn

## How to use the framework

MUST BE CALLED FROM THE ROOT OF THE REPO!!! 

## Repository structure
This repository contains the following files and directories:
- apps: Contains the Python code to launch the applications and benchmarks supported by the framework and to parse their output.
        It also contains the source code of some of those applications and benchmarks.
- apps_mix: Contains the files describing the mix of applications and benchmarks that can be concurrently run by the framework.
- compile.sh: Script to compile the applications and benchmarks.
- conf: Contains the configuration files for the different systems.
- conf.sh: Configuration file for the framework.
- data: Contains the data collected by the framework.
- generate_script.py: Generate the bash script to run a specific test suite.
- node_files: Contains the files listing the available nodes on the system.
- plots: Contains the plots generated by the framework.
- plotter.py: The script to generate the plots from the data collected by the framework.
- run.sh: Generates the bash script to run a specific test suite and runs it.
- runner.py: The main script of the framework. It runs the applications and benchmarks and collects the data.
- specific_plotter: Contains additional visualization scripts.
- test_suites: Contains the test suites to be run by the framework.

Example: \
`$ python3 runner.py wl_manager/MPI_wlm.py schedule_files/pairings/pw-ping-pong_b_1MiB_a2a_b_128KiB node_files/SF_all_nodes_ordered -am r -as 10:90`\
to execute the runner. \
`$ python3 plotter.py violin data/pairings -x agg_name -y max_duration -sp 10:90 -ms 1MiB -v pw-pingpong -a isolated,all-to-all`\
to create a corresponding violin plot.

## apps directory
Holds applications/benchmarks and the corresponding python classes that are needed to parse their outputs. \
In the `internals` sub-directory one can find the benchmarks coming with the framework. \
Additionally there are parts that support external applications, which were used in the thesis and experiments on the slimfly:
- `netgauge-2.4.6`: network performance measurement toolkit, can be found [here](https://htor.inf.ethz.ch/research/netgauge/).
- `ember-master`: communication pattern library, can be found [here](https://github.com/sstsimulator/ember).
- `osu-micro-benchmarks-5.7.1`: benchmark suite, can be found [here](http://mvapich.cse.ohio-state.edu/benchmarks/).
- `real_apps`: directory holding python classes that parse the outputs of
  - Graph500
  - MiniFE
  - AMG

  Which can be found [here](https://gitlab.com/domke/t2hx).
  
Finally there is a template `class_template.py` explaining the format of an application class, such that the corresponing application can be correctly integrated into the framework. Note an application class should be named "app".

## data directory
Holds the data collected on the slimfly for the bachelor thesis.\
The runner will dump the data here by default. It will create a sub-directory for each execution of the script holding a file with prefix `d` (actual data), a file with prefix `md` (meta data) and if specified a file with prefix `r` (runtime report: what was printed to the console during the execution).


## node_files directory
Holds files that list available nodes on the system. Default format is one per line. If custom allocation is specified for the runner then one column per application/benchmark (csv style).

# How to add the support for a new system
Let's assume that the system name is newsystem'.
1) Add a newsystem.sh file in the conf/ directory. Copy the content from one of the existing files and adjust the parameters to match the new system.
2) Set the SYSTEM variable to "newsystem" in the conf.sh script.
.
# Credits
A preliminary version of this benchmark was used for the paper "An In-Depth Analysis of the Slingshot Interconnect" by Daniele De Sensi, Salvatore Di Girolamo, Kim H. McMahon, Duncan Roweth, Torsten Hoefler. The framework has been later extended by Loic Holbein as part of his bachelor thesis "Congestion Benchmarking and Visualization of Large-Scale Interconnection Networks". Many people contributed to the development of the framework and the applications/benchmarks it supports. 

- 